README.md, before:

# Lang Classifier Classics

Provides plugins for the following packages:

- https://github.com/aboSamoor/pycld2 - CLD2 is a Naïve Bayesian classifier, detects over 80 languages
- https://github.com/bsolomon1124/pycld3 - CLD3 is a neural network model for language identification
- https://github.com/kootenpv/fastlang - Built upon the nltk stopwords, without depending on nltk itself.
- https://github.com/Mimino666/langdetect - Detect language of a text using naive Bayesian filter

Additionally a "voter" plugin is provided, it will use all the above and average predictions, each model compensates for the other bias balancing each other out better and increasing accuracy


> **NOTE**: The voter plugin can be used with **any** lang detect plugin, not only the ones above


## Configuration

in `mycroft.conf` 

```javascript
  "language": {
    "detection_module": "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-voter",
    
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-voter": {
        "weights": {
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld3": 0.8,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld2": 0.8,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-lingua-podre": 1.0,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-langdetect": 1.0,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-fastlang": 1.0,
        }
    }
    
  },
```

## Usage

```python
weights = {
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld3": 0.8,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld2": 0.8,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-lingua-podre": 1.0,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-langdetect": 1.0,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-fastlang": 1.0,
}
p = VotingLangDetectPlugin(config={"weights": weights})

for utt in ["hello world",
            "olá mundo",
            "hola mundo",
            "once upon a time there was a voice assistant",
            "era uma vez um assistente de voz"]:
    print(p.detect(utt))
```
## Credits

bundled package plugins originally from @NeonGeckoCom but never published

Commit message:

move to gcld3 and make it optional

README.md, after:

# Lang Classifier Classics

Provides plugins for the following packages:

- https://github.com/google/cld3 - CLD3 is a neural network model for language identification
- https://github.com/aboSamoor/pycld2 - CLD2 is a Naïve Bayesian classifier, detects over 80 languages
- https://github.com/kootenpv/fastlang - Built upon the nltk stopwords, without depending on nltk itself.
- https://github.com/Mimino666/langdetect - Detect language of a text using naive Bayesian filter

Additionally a "voter" plugin is provided, it will use other plugins and average predictions, each model compensates for the other bias balancing each other out better and increasing accuracy


> **NOTE**: The voter plugin can be used with **any** lang detect plugin, not only the ones above

## Configuration

To use `ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld3` the additional dependency `gcld3` needs to be installed

in `mycroft.conf` 

```javascript
  "language": {
    "detection_module": "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-voter",
    
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-voter": {
        "weights": {
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld3": 0.8,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld2": 0.8,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-lingua-podre": 1.0,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-langdetect": 1.0,
            "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-fastlang": 1.0,
        }
    }
    
  },
```

## Usage

```python
weights = {
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld3": 0.8,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-cld2": 0.8,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-lingua-podre": 1.0,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-langdetect": 1.0,
    "ovos-lang-detector-plugin-fastlang": 1.0,
}
p = VotingLangDetectPlugin(config={"weights": weights})

for utt in ["hello world",
            "olá mundo",
            "hola mundo",
            "once upon a time there was a voice assistant",
            "era uma vez um assistente de voz"]:
    print(p.detect(utt))
```
## Credits

bundled package plugins originally from @NeonGeckoCom but never published
